Most likely, when we speak to our brothers and our sisters, our friends, our family, it seems like everyone is going through something
distressful, something that's causing them anxiety.
If it's not us, it could be our mate. It could be a close friend. It could be our parents. It could be anyone that we're close to.
This causes worry. It causes anxiety. We get stressed out over the stress.
What can we do?
We can be like David. What did David do? Open your Bibles to Psalm 18 and verse six.
David did not rely on himself. He turned to his best friend and his rescuer, Jehovah.
Psalm 18, six reads, in my distress, I called on Jehovah to my God. I kept crying for help from his temple. He heard my voice.
And my cry to him for help reached his ears. And verse 16 goes on to say, in response, Jehovah reached down from on high.
He took hold of me and pulled me from deep waters. Yes, he rescued me from my strong enemy, from those hating me, who were stronger than I was.
Well, it's comforting to read what David went through and how Jehovah helped him. And it's comforting that Jehovah promises to do the same for you, for me, and all of his loyal servants.
Now in the past, Jehovah used angels. He dispatched them. He sent them to help loyal ones like Jacob, Gideon, Daniel, Mary, and Jesus.
Now, we still have angels helping us today, but who does Jehovah use primarily to help his servants on earth? You, me, and our brotherhood, and what a privilege it is to be used by Jehovah, to be dispatched by Jehovah, to be an aid to someone else.
But we need to ask ourselves, am I someone who is ready to be used? Am I willing to be used by Jehovah? Am I willing to be dispatched when someone's going through difficult times?
Picture, if you will, a young man swimming in the ocean. He's doing fine until he comes into distress. He begins yelling out to be rescued.
Thankfully, an alert lifeguard is there. He dives into the ocean. He plunges in and brings this person to a rescue.
Now, lifeguards are there for a reason. They're there to warn people of danger, but if they're in danger, they pull them to rescue. We expect that a lifeguard would do that.
What does Jehovah expect of us? Well, he trains us to protect others, to be a lifesaver, a lifeguard for other brothers and sisters who are desperately needing help.
In a similar way, we need to think about others. We need to be observant like a lifeguard and see if they might be drowning in sorrow or in some sort of a distress and see what we can do to come to their rescue.
And what can we do? Follow today's text at Proverbs 17-17. Let's read it in its entirety.
It says, a true friend shows love at all times and is a brother who is born for times of distress. So what does that mean? A true friend shows love at all times.
A true friend is not one who makes your problems disappear. A true friend is the one who won't disappear when you're facing problems. That's a true friend.
When David was going through very difficult times, many abandoned him, but not Jonathan, not Hushai. They were there. They were loyal. They were true friends. Through thick and thin, they were there to assist David to rescue him when he needed rescuing the most.
Yes, they stood by David when he needed to lean on them.
Love was a very foundation of their friendship. Love was enduring. Love was strong. Now, think about lifeguards going back to our illustration.
Lifeguards are not born lifeguards. They are trained to do so, to be observant, to come to the rescue of others. Jehovah is training us now.
We need to use that training to help others. We need to be observant. We need to be on the lookout to come to their rescue.
And when you think about true friends, they know us very well. Even if we don't say anything to them, they are observant. They know if we're going through a difficult time. Just by a look, maybe our tone of voice or possibly our demeanor. They come to our rescue.
Jesus said at John 15, verse 13, that no one has greater love than this. And what is this? That somewishers should surrender his life in behalf of his friends.
Now, we know that our friends are willing to sacrifice for us. And some points sometimes it could mean that we would die for our friends.
But likely what it means is we are surrendering, giving up sacrificing our time, our energy to come to the aid of others, to build them up spiritually, helps them physically, sometimes even emotionally.
Because love is the very foundation, it's enduring. It never, ever fails.
Now, sometimes we want to come to the aid of others, but we don't know what to say. We may not know what to do. We can't fix their problem. We can't take it away.
But we can come to their aid and be with them. Be there for them. Be at their side. Sometimes just being a good listener. That's true love.
The smallest act of kindness is worth far more than the grandest intention. And we need to remember that.
Remember Jehovah expects us to be genuine and self-sacrificing in self-sacrificing in our love at all times for others.
Unexpected events happen at unexpected times. So we need to ask ourselves, am I ready to give of myself, put things aside and jump into action to help my brother or sister?
Interestingly, the second part of that verse is verse 17. It says, a brother who is born in times of distress. How are we to understand that part of the scripture?
Well, it could mean a brother or sister who is our fleshly brother or sister, but many times it's not. It could be a brother or sister spiritually who has come to our aid, someone who is a true friend, someone who is loyal.
That's what Proverbs 1824 says that a true friend is sticking closer than a brother.
We have the opportunity to be used by Jehovah, to be an answer to someone's prayer, if we allow ourselves to be used by Jehovah, to make ourselves available and dive in to come to the rescue of others.
And quite likely, we're going to go through a distressful time and we'll need someone to be an answer to our prayer.
A true friend is one who walks into your life when others are walking out. They enter, they come into our life when we need them most, like the case of David.
We might be good at coming to the rescue right away when something happens in someone's life, but what would happen if that illness or that issue is prolonged?
It goes on and on. Will we still stick to our brother and our sister and be there for them in their time of distress?
Well, we want to continue to keep in contact with them, to assure them of Jehovah's love, our love, by a note, an email, a text, visiting them.
All these will assure them that they are truly loved.
When we think about Paul, the Apostle Paul, he went through many distressful times. In fact, when he was in Rome in the year 60 CE, he was imprisoned.
He mentioned by name in the Book of Colossians chapter 4, five brothers, five friends that came to his rescue. They were brothers born for when he was going through distress.
Yes, they entered into his life when he needed them most. We recall it was someone called Ticacus, Onesimus, Aristarchus, Mark, and Justice.
And what did Paul say in Colossians chapter 4 and verse 11 about them? He said, they have become a source of great comfort to me.
Or the footnote says, a strengthening aid. It's interesting that a strengthening aid comes from a Greek word which is rendered medicine, something that provides comfort, relief.
Those five brothers, those friends, could not relieve Paul from his prison cell, but they could be comforting and a strengthening aid so he could endure what he was going through.
They were willing to do whatever they needed to do to bring him comfort, to be his messenger, to provide material things for him, like clothing, writing materials. That's a true friend.
From his experience, he said at 1 Thessalonians 5 and verse 14, speak consolingly to those who are depressed or discouraged, support the weak, be patient toward all.
That expression, support the weak, has been rendered to hold fast, to cleave to the weak.
Many of our brothers and sisters today, many of us are drowning in distress, we're overwhelmed with problems.
May we be observant, may we be willing to dive in to rescue our brother and our sister, offering them a helping hand and hang on to them tight.
And may it be, in our case, when we help somebody that they say of us, a true friend you are, someone who showed love and time of distress.